=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Math::Bacovia::Log - Represents the natural logarithm of a symbolic value.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use 5.014;
    use Math::Bacovia qw(Log Symbol);

    my $f = Log(Symbol('a'));
    my $g = Log(Symbol('b'));

    say (($f + $g)->pretty);    #=> log(a * b)

=head1 METHODS

This section describes the methods provided by the B<Math::Bacovia::Log> module.

=head2 new

    my $obj = Math::Bacovia::Log->new($value);

Constructs and returns a new B<Math::Bacovia::Log> object.

=head2 get

    my ($value) = $obj->get;

Returns the internal value of the self-object.

=head2 add

    $x + $y
    $x->add($y)

Sum of C<x> and C<y>, using the identity:

    log(a) + log(b) = log(a * b)

=head2 sub

    $x - $y
    $x->sub($y)

Subtraction of C<y> from C<x>, using the identity:

    log(a) - log(b) = log(a / b)

=head2 neg

    -$x
    $x->neg

Additive inverse of C<x>, using the identity:

    -log(a) = log(1/a)

=head2 eq

    $x == $y
    $x->eq($y)

Return a true value when C<x> and C<y> are symbolically equal.

=head1 SPECIAL METHODS

This section describes the special methods provided by the B<Math::Bacovia::Log> module.

=head2 alternatives

    my @alt = $obj->alternatives;
    my @alt = $obj->alternatives(full => 1);

This method uses common mathematical identities to create symbolically equivalent expressions from the self-expression.

=head2 pretty

    my $str = $obj->pretty;

Returns a human-readable stringification of the self-expression.

=head2 stringify

    my $str = $obj->stringify;

Returns a stringification of the self-expression.

=head2 numeric

    my $num = $obj->numeric;

Evaluates the self-expression numerically and returns a L<Math::AnyNum> object.

=head1 SEE ALSO

The other parts of B<Math::Bacovia>:

=over 4

=item * L<Math::Bacovia>

=item * L<Math::Bacovia::Fraction>

=item * L<Math::Bacovia::Difference>

=item * L<Math::Bacovia::Power>

=item * L<Math::Bacovia::Exp>

=item * L<Math::Bacovia::Sum>

=item * L<Math::Bacovia::Product>

=item * L<Math::Bacovia::Number>

=item * L<Math::Bacovia::Symbol>

=back

=head1 REPOSITORY

L<https://github.com/trizen/Math-Bacovia>

=head1 AUTHOR

Daniel Șuteu, C<< <trizen at cpan.org> >>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2017-2019 Daniel Șuteu

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.22.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
